---
title: "Overall Research Interests"
date: 2022-10-24T16:35:04-06:00
weight: 1
cover:
  image: /Overview.jpg
  caption: "Working on projects at the Sante Fe Institute's Complex Systems Summer School"
---
My research interests are in using computational methods from complexity science and systems biology to explain new physiological phenomena, advance biomedicine, and provide predictive capabilities that can change human heath through better clinical decision making. Complexity theory is the study of systems whose components interact non-linearly and at many different scales. Nearly all physiological systems can be conceptualized through a complex systems framework. Interactions between trillions of heterogeneous signaling molecules and cells form sophisticated pathways and feedback loops, allowing humans to conquer incredible physical and intellectual feats; from flying to the moon or summiting the tallest mountain on earth to the surprisingly intricate tasks of breathing, blinking, thinking, and even simply being. These complex physiological processes are dynamic - changing overtime - and sometimes becoming dysfunctional. In some sense, this dysfunctionality could be used to explain every death or disease in history. The entire goal of medicine, then, is to identify where the system has become dysfunctional and fix the problem. Of course, this is nothing close to a trivial question and some types of dysfunction are easier to identify and fix than others. A central challenge is that in the medical realm, clinically accessible data are never a direct measurement of these fundamental driving processes. Instead, they are a reflection of the collective dynamics of these many processes riddled with noise and non-stationarity effects. Therefore, my research is focused on how we can use tools from complex systems theory to map this observable behavior to information about the function (or dysfunction) of the many physiologic processes forming that behavior and identifying the pathologies or functionality associated with those fundamental physiologic process. In my thesis, I study two physiological systems; the vascular system and the endocrine system, using a complex systems framework with the aim of aiding in clinical decision making and advancing biomedicine.
